# Challenges in 360 Video

### First-person 360° videos

While shooting traditional videos from a first-person perspective is conceivably simple, doing so in a 360° context adds some challenges to the process. In classic filmmaking, you would just put the camera in front of the actor’s face. In 360 however, this would result in having the back half of your video filled by a giant close-up shot of the actor’s forehead. Any other camera placement would put the head at some other position close to the camera, which would still be a distraction.

### 3D spatial sound
Traditional surround sound technologies are already complex. However, shooting in 360° introduces an extra caveat to this situation. The viewer chooses the viewing perspective, which means that the sounds will eventually come from a different angle every time. This means that some of the sounds in the video actually have to be sampled in real-time in 3D space.

### The difficulty with cuts
Fade-cuts and jump-cuts are widely used in traditional film. In 360° however, some of these cuts might result in different effects. Sudden changes of environments might cause disorientation and after frequent use even nausea. This is because in 360° there is no fixed reference point to relate to (unlike the space outside of the screen in traditional film). For this we have find a different way of working with cuts, which will be explained in the following
chapters ( [Soft Cuts](softcuts.md) ).

### Nothing can be cropped out

Since the viewer can look in every direction, all unwanted objects, including lights, microphones, operators, and even the director, have to be hidden in the scene or in a different room. This is also why natural light is preferred for 360° videos.

### Storyboarding in 360°
With spherical videos, it is hard to accurately draw the spherical scene onto a flat piece of paper. Therefore, we had to find new ways to draw storyboards for 360° videos. These included drawing top-down views, dividing the scene into quadrants and labelling each action with the corresponding quadrant, and even drawing the storyboards in virtual reality, using Google’s “TiltBrush”.

### Special effects and editing in 360°
In order to save a spherical video to a traditional video format, a type of projection (mostly equirectangular) must be applied, which will turn the spherical video into a rectangular, very distorted video. In order to overlay special effects, or to compose other objects into a scene, the same equirectangular projection has to be applied to those. Therefore, we had to research how to achieve this effect for our content.

# Filming in 360

## Height experiment

Height experiment put on the table the challenge of achieving a real experience for VR. Depending on the height, the viewer can feel more or less immersed in the story told (interview filmed). To achieve realism, experiments needed user-testing before being filmed. After some user testing the decision was made: filming at eye height was the most suitable and realistic form.

##Perspective experiment 

The Perspective experiment had also the challenge of finding the most suitable perspective which didn’t differ from reality. 1st and 3rd person where two possibilities of filming the interview. 1st person was a big hurdle and needed different inputs from the group to deal with it.